---
Layout: post
Title: “Understanding Inequality in Islamic religion”
---

## Introduction
Hey there! I am Caleb and i will be doing this blog as a final project as instructed by my professor Dr.Danielle Dubois in the a Women and Religion course and using what 've learned i will be ding a blog based on the question "Is Inequality in Islamic religion supported or rejected?",this particular question i'm sure has crossed alot of your minds at some point so join me as i dissect what this means and break down this statement. 

## Hypothesis
When discussing if the Islamic religion supports or rejects equality towards women,as a student in this religion course I have battled with this question in my learning this course and I’m sure a lot of people have questions about it,  when looking at the Islamic religion there is a lot of speculations that women are being oppressed in the Islamic tradition and I would like to use this blog to understand these oppressions and to find out the role of women in the Quran and if it is supported or rejected.

### Findings in the Quran
The Quran a book known to be the “Holy book” that governs the Islamic tradition gives rules and instruction to women that are controversial, such as which talks about women's modesty and dress Surah Al-Ahzab (33:59) "O Prophet, tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to bring down over themselves part of their outer garments. That is more suitable that they will be known and not be abused. And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful.", 
this verse in my opinion is used as a way to govern what women wear as the Quran speaks about modesty for both men and women but we see it being more emphasized on the women and when reading this particular verse it could be used as an excuse for when a woman who isn’t wearing a hijab is assaulted which makes no sense as we see that even women wearing hijabs do get assaulted as a study in the U.S shows that regardless of what women were, so in the aspect of the Quran supporting or rejecting this claim we can see it seems vague which leads to misinterpretation so it is not necessarily protecting it’s women, more things mentioned in the Quran leads to doubt of the protection of women as in Surah An-Nisa (4:34) it says " Men are in charge of women by [right of] what Allah has given one over the other and what they spend [for maintenance] from their wealth. So righteous women are devoutly obedient, guarding in [the husband's] absence what Allah would have them guard. But those [wives] from whom you fear arrogance - [first] advise them; [then if they persist], forsake them in bed; and [finally], strike them. But if they obey you [once more], seek no means against them. Indeed, Allah is ever Exalted and Grand", This verse has always been controversial as this is clear indication of Allah directing his followers to use force on their wives, an article published claims that this was in a way practiced in the Quran as it mentions “ Most notable is the behaviour of the companion of the Prophet, al-Zubayr, particularly his mistreatment of Asma’, the daughter of the Prophet’s companion and later first caliph, Abu Bakr. Ibn Sa‘d states that al-Zubayr was hard on her.”  Although this can be interpreted another way it was regarding a companion on their prophet. As much as it is being misinterpreted differently these days this was probably practiced a lot in the early Islamic period, and they are probably some people who still practice it till this day.  There are instances where men and women are treated such as Surah Al-Baqarah (4:19) where it says “O you who have believed, it is not lawful for you to inherit women by compulsion. And do not make difficulties for them in order to take [back] part of what you gave them unless they commit a clear immorality. And live with them in kindness. For if you dislike them - perhaps you dislike a thing and Allah makes therein much good.”. 

## Conclusion
My Conclusive thought on this that the Quran does protects its women but to an extent and although still puts them below men this is probably related to traditional values.
